Accessing Files:
Linux file access permissions are used to control who is able to read, write and execute
a certain file.
Basic permissions:
Owner permissions: A user is the owner of the file. The owner's permissions determine
what actions the owner of the file can perform on the file. The Owner permissions apply
only the owner of the file or directory, they will not impact the actions of other users.
Group permissions: The group's permissions determine what actions a user, who is a member
of the group that a file belongs to, can perform on the file.
Other permissions: The permissions for others indicate what action all other users can perform on the file.

Linux permissions dictate 3 things that an user can do with a file: read, write and execute.
They are referred to in Linux by a single letter each.

r read: you may view the contents of the file.
w write: you may change the contents of the file.
x execute: you may execute the contents of the file.

Chmod: The command called chmod is used to change permissions on a file or directory. It stands for
change file mode bits which is a bit of a mouthfull but think of the mode bits as the permission
to execute or run the file if it is a program or script.

The following 3 permissions are defined for every file and directory in Linux system for all 3 owners:

Read: The Read permission gives you the authority to open and read a file. It gives you the ability to
list its content.
Write: The write permission gives you the authority to add, remove and rename files stored in the directory.
Consider a scenario where you have to write permission on file but do not have write permission on the directory
where the file is stored. You will be able to modify the file contents but you will not be able to rename, move
or remove the file from the directory.
Execute: In Unix/Linux, you cannot run a program unless the execute permission is set. If the execute permission
is not set, you might still be able to see/modify the program code, but not run it.

Read, write and execute permissions are the basic building blocks of Unix permissions, which can be briefly described
as:
Read: Grants the capability to read, i.e., view the contents of the file.
Write: Grants the capability to modify, or remove the content of the file.
Execute: User with execute permissions can run a file as a program.

Directory Access Modes:
Directory access modes are listed and organized in the same manner as any other file.
r = read permission
w = write permission
x = execute permission
- = no permission

Changing Ownership:
The chown command changes the ownership of a file. The basic syntax is as follows -
$ chown user filelist
The value of the user can be either the name of a user on the system or the user id (uid) of a user on the system.

The chgrp command changes the group ownership of a file. The basic syntax is as follows -
$ chgrp group filelist
The value of group can be the name of a group on the system or the group ID(GID) of a group on the system.
