Linux File System:
Linux file system is generally a built-in layer of a Linux operating system used to handle the data management of the storage.
All the files systems are part of a single Directory.

Some of the Directories:-
1.  /bin: This is the directory that command & runs application and programs. It contains the executable programs.
2.  /dev: This directory contains the device files.
3.  /etc: The system configuration is present in this directory.
4.  /boot: The boot files that are required to start device are present in it.
5.  /home: This directory contains user's personal directories.
6.  /mnt: This directory maunally mount storage.
7.  /lib: This directory contains shared library files.
8.  /media: It is the directory where the external storage will be mounted when plugged in.
9.  /root: It is known as the home directory of the administrator.
10. /temp: This is the directory used when system boots and you need to use temp space.
11. /proc: The information of CPU & Kernel process is stored in this directory.
12. /usr: This contains unique system resources. 
13. /var: This directory is used to store data that changes frequently.

Basic Commands and functions:-
1.  pwd: It stands for present working directory. The command shows us the present working directory, simply gives us the path of the current working directory.
2.  cat: Cat is short for concatenate. This command can be used to show and create files.
3.  touch file: It is used to create a new blank file.
4.  cp: CP stands for copy, simply means to copy all the content of a file to another file.
5.  mv: This command is used to move and to rename the file. 
6.  rm: To delete the file.
7.  head: This command is used to get information about top files instead of all files.
8.  tail: This command is used to get information about last files instead of all files.
9.  ping: It is used to check  working of network.
10. uname: To check current version of Linux.
11. vi: Text editor ,press i to insert then press ESC to return & wq to save and exit .
12. mkdir: It is used to make a new directory.
13. rmdir: It is used to remove an empty directory. 
14. cd: It is used to move to a particular path or to change directory.
15. cd ~ : Return to home directory.
16. Cp -r: r with the copy command can be used to copy a directory including all its content from a source directory to the destination directory.
17. chmod: This command is used to change the access mode of the file.
18. Is: Used to view the content of directory.
19. Echo: It inserts text in the given file
20. Clear: It clears information on the display screen to provide a blank slate.
