Package Management in linux:

Package management is a method of installing and maintaining (which includes updating and probably removing as well) software on the system in Linux.
It includes updating and probably removing as well. Programs were only distributed as source code, along with the required man pages, the necessary
configuration files, and more. Nowadays, most Linux distributors use by default pre-built programs or sets of programs called packages, which are
presented to users ready for installation on that distribution. However, one of the wonders of Linux is the possibility to obtain source code of
a program to be studied, improved, and compiled. There are many package manager studio for Linux/Unix based system.

Yum:
yum is the primary tool for getting, installing, deleting, querying, and managing Red Hat Enterprise Linux,
RPM software packages from official Red Hat software repositories, as well as other third-party repositories.
yum is used in Red Hat Enterprise Linux versions 5 and later.

Commands in YUM:
yum install--Installs the specified packages
remove--Removes the specified packages
search--Searches package metadata for keywords
info--Lists description
update--Updates each package to the latest version
repolist--Lists repositories
history--Displays what has happened in past transactions
YUM provides many options for package management.

Yam Package Manager:
1.It is Yellowdog Updater Modified.
2.It is command line package manager for RPM based Linux distribution such as CentOS,Fedora and RedHat.
3.It enables us to install a package and all its dependencies, delete package, upgrade existing packages, search for packages etc.
4.Syntax of Yam Command : yam[OPTIONS][COMMAND][PACKAGE]

Yam Repository:
1.It is warehouse of linux software.
2.It holds a number of RPM package file and enable download and installation of new software on our VPS.

Yum Repository:
1.File must exist in the /etc/yum.repos.d/ directory
2.File must have an extension .repo
3.If GPG check is enabled then GPG key must be mentioned.
